Israel is stopping Air Force personnel
from traveling abroad because of fears
that an attack from Iran or one of its
allies is imminent defense minister yav
Galant uh said Israel is in a state of
vigilance and preparedness tensions have
been mounting in the Middle East over
the killings of leading members of the
Hamas and Hezbollah militant groups a
Public Announcement by the United States
that it is sending a submarine warships
and fighter jets to bolster Israel's def
is being seen as a warning to
Iran and Middle East analyst Georgio
cafiero joins me now from Washington DC
he is the CEO of Gulf State analytics a
risk assessment group welcome 2dw uh we
have not yet seen Iran's promised
retaliation for those assassinations of
Hamas political leader hania in tan and
a senior Hezbollah commander in Late
July do you think that this is now
imminent thank you good to be on your
program I would have a very difficult
time Imagining the Iranians not
retaliating considering that two very
high ranking figures in the Iran Le axis
of resistance were killed last month and
of course the killing of the Hamas
leader in the heart of the Iranian
Capital was so humiliating the
leadership in tan definitely wants to
establish what we often call quote
unquote deterrence capacity so I do
think there is going to be some sort of
an action from Iran or other actors in
the axis of resistance but I'm not so
convinced that it will necessarily come
so soon I think Tran will be acting
cautiously they certainly don't want to
do something that would give Israel
justification for escalating this to a
much higher level and I think the
Iranians are also quite content to see
everyone on edge and certainly to the
Israelis very nervous so again I
definitely expect some sort of an
Iranian response but I don't think
there's any reason to assume that it's
going to come at some point in the
immediate future now Germany's
chancellor Olaf Schulz has spoken to
Iran's new president mud pesan and
called for restraint will that have any
effect on the Iranian leadership you
think I don't think so um in light of
the Europeans responding to the way in
which the US sabotaged the nuclear deal
back in
2018 left the Iranians viewing the
Europeans as completely spineless unable
to stand up to Washington then also the
conflict in Ukraine has heightened
tensions between uh Western European
countries and Iran and then also
everything in the Middle East since
October 7th have led to a further
deterioration of ties between most EU
members and Iran I don't think Germany
really has much influence here let's
keep in mind Germany has been a staunch
supporter of Israel throughout this
conflict I again I I just don't see uh
the leadership in Germany really saying
anything that's going to have much of an
effect on Iran to be entirely honest and
what about the United States thinking on
this are you surprised to see them
deploying a guided missile submarine to
the
region no not at all I think obviously
the United States is trying to send a
message to Israel and also all of
Israel's adversaries in the region that
Washington is going to have Israel's
back no matter what happens and if these
hostilities spiral out of control and
turn into a full-fledged war in the
Middle East I'm positive the United
States will go all in to support Israel
and this flexing of military muscles is
about sending that message out out to
friend and foe now just before I let you
go I'd like to turn briefly to uh the
Gaza ceasefire Talks brokered by the US
Qatar and Egypt that we are expecting to
take place on Thursday Hamas has now
rejected an invitation to a final round
of negotiations do you see any hope for
these
talks I'm not extremely optimistic about
these high stakes talks set for later on
this week
uh you know late last month uh
presumably it was Israel that
assassinated the lead Hamas negotiator
you have to certainly consider how that
makes Hamas look at the idea of
negotiating with Israel in a different
way and also the new Hamas Chief sinir
is a lot less flexible than his
predecessor he's much more of a
hardliner uh he is taking he will be
taking more maximalist positions as the
Hamas Chief and I think it's going to be
much harder with these new conditions
this new leadership in Hamas to imagine
the Palestinian group uh being willing
to make real compromises with the
Israelis at the Roundtable not saying
it's not possible but I just want to
stress that I think it's going to be
much more difficult despite all of the
hard work that we've seen from officials
in Egypt and Kar well thank you so much
for joining us with those insights that
is Giorgio cafiero with Gul State
analytics we very much appreciate your
time thank you so much